Important information

You should consult your physician as soon as you plan to become
pregnant

You must consult a doctor before performing any surgeries or dental-
operations

A doctor should be consulted immediately if any of the

following symptoms occur

«Bleeding from the gums or mouth

+Cough is full of blood

«Stool turns black. Heavy menstruation -bleeding unusual
«Non-stop bleeding from wounds

«Easy bruising

«Sudden severe headache

Finally, you should be fully aware of the answers to the

following questions

«Why should you take Marevan?

+How long should Marevan be taken?
«What is the dose of Marevan?

«What is the optimal blood fluidity number?
«What is the date of the next analysis?
«What are the signs of high liquidity?

‘The liquidity ratio is monitored in the outpatient clinics where a
prior appointment is set on the following days (Saturday -
Monday - Wednesday - Thursday) of every week

In Emergency Please

Call

0972391100

or go directly to the nearest hospital, if you
have any bleeding

What is Marevan?

It is an anticoagulant drug that prevents blood clots
from forming
Marevan does not dissolve previously formed clots,

but it prevents the formation of new clots

Marevan is used in heart diseases for the following

cases

Atrial fibrillation - irregular heartbeat
Change of Valves
in case of a metal valve, Marevan will be taken throughout the

course of life to avoid clots or a tissue valve, in this case, it
takes 3 months

How is Marevan taken?
Marevan should be taken daily and at a fixed time
What should I do if I miss a dose of Marivan?

The dose should be taken as soon as it is remembered, provided

that it is at least 6 hours between the time of the next dose

Never take two doses at the same time unless advised by your

doctor

ae)

os

MAGDI YACOUB

HEART FOUNDATION
ASWAN HEART CENTRE

Educational Health Program

Marevan

Marevan is available in the Egyptian market in three concentrations
img, 3mg, 5 mg

in three different colors (as shown)

Brown Color 1 mg

Follow-up INR analysis

from 9 am to 7 pm all week except
Friday, Sunday and Tuesday

01026791036

This booklet will help you

gain a better understanding

How to make sure of the correct dose?

Regular blood flow analysis (INR) is done

Atrial fibrillation : the fluidity ratio is not less than 2

For the metal valve: the fluidity ratio must be
from (2-3) or according to the instructions of the attending

physician

Marevan and other medications?

There are several medications that interact with Marevan, which
may negatively influence its impact, and it appears on the result
of the periodic INR analysis, so you must inform the doctor of
any other medications before taking them, especially the

following medicines

*Pain relievers such as Voltaren, Cataflam and Ibuprofen
* Antibiotics and antifungals
*Any other anticoagulant medication

*Vitamin K

* Antidepressants

Marevan and food

There are some foods that weaken the effect of Marevan,
especially foods that contain vitamin (K) like vegetables that
contain green leaves such as lettuce, spinach, cabbage and
cauliflower

Liver is one of the rich foods of vitamin K, so small amounts
should be eaten

It is a common mistake for the patient to stop eating these foods,

and the best is to continue eating the same amounts in the same

4

way

Ss