IX

MAGDI YACOUB
HEART FOUNDATION
ASWAN HEART CENTRE

The Medical Educational Program

6 ary angiograph

This pamphlet will guide you
to a better understanding.

The Procedure:

You might be required not eat or drink for several hours
(6-8 hours) before this procedure.

This procedure is undergone while the patient is
conscious.

Vital signs to be observed.

The inguinal area gets disinfected and Anesthetized by
a local anesthetic, and the catheter gets inserted in the
artery through the thigh or hand skin up to the
coronary arteries.

When the catheter reaches the coronary arteries, the
doctor injects the special dye and take some images by
the x-ray.

In case there is a blocking, the doctor advises to remove
it and install stents if necessary.

After the imaging, the doctor carries out the catheter
and ask the patient to lie down in a flat level and not to
bend the legs for 6-8 hours to avoid bleeding.

The patient is going to need someone to accompany
and help bring him/her back home.

Conclusion:
The Coronary Vessels Imaging help your doctor to watch
the blood vessels of your heart.
The Vessels Imaging is the best way to check if there is a
clogging or narrowing in the arteries.
Balloons or stents are used to increase the blood flow to
heart normally.
Coronary Vessels Imaging is safe, risks and
complications are very rare, but knowing them will
make it easier to detect them early if they happen

Some people suffer from serious problems in heart
and the arteries that supply it with blood. Doctors
help checking up the coronary vessels in heart. If
the doctor recommended the coronary vessels
imaging, then it is your decision to accept it or not.

The cholesterol plaque in the coronary arteries lead
to anarrowing of the arteries which blocks the blood
flow and reduce the blood flow to the heart muscle
and that could cause a heart attack. These cholesterol
plaque makes the heart unable to do its work and if
things get worse, it may hurt the heart.

The coronary vessels imaging is a test helps to
examine the coronary arteries and find out any
clogging or narrowing in them.

Risks and Complications:

This procedure is safe, but some possible risks
and complications might happen and therefore
they should be known to the patient to help
the doctor detect them once they happen.

The used Radition in this procedure can hurt the
fetus so women should be sure they are not
pregnant before exposing to this ray

Heart attack

The artery used in catheterization gets hurt which
reduce the amount of blood in the leg or arm.

An injury in the leg or arm nerve

An allergy due to the dye used in this procedure.
That is why the patient should tell the doctor
about any history with allergy.

The used dye can cause a kidney failure

herefore one should inform the doctor

about any kidney problems he/she had,

What Comes after the Coronary
Imaging?

. The patient needs to lie down for 8 hours
without bending his/her leg in the side where
the angioplasy has been made.

The nursing staff gives the patient enough
liquids to drink to invigorate the kidneys
functions and keep them safe from the used
(special) dye making it carried out of the body
in urine.

The nursing staff gives the patient enough
liquids to drink to invigorate the kidneys
functions and keep them safe from the used
(special) dye making it carried out of the body
in urine.

. The patient should see the doctor if he/she
felt pain in chest, difficulty in breathing, pain in
the arm or disturbances in heartbeats