Causes

Hereditary plays a significant role.
Genetic disorders.

٠ Dawn syndrome.

٠ Smoking during pregnancy.

Symptoms:
٠ Severe fatigue.
٠ Bad blood circulation.
٠ Fast Breathing.

e Cyanosis (the bluish discoloration of skin, lips
and fingernails)

Serious defects could cause a cardiac
failure and the symptoms are:

e Accumulation of fluids in the lungs.
٠ Shortness in breath or other breathing troubles.

The swelling of ankles, feet, legs, belly and neck veins
Diagnosis:

* Ultrasound imaging.

Physical check (listening to the child heart -
searching for birth defect signs like Cyanosis).

5

Echo X-Ray.

EKG test.
Chest X-Ray.

Heart catheterization.

Treatment:

Medicines and they are used as precautions from
problems - Ease the symptoms - Cure the
complications.

By conducting catheterization, it depends on the birth
defect that is being repaired. If the defect is a hole in the
interventricular septum, a device looks like umbrella
comes out of catheter and gets installed where it covers
the hole and then a natural tissue grows there above
the device within 6 months.

٠ To treat the shortness in breath, they blow a delicate
balloon lies in the end of catheter quickly to widen the
valve.

An open-heart operation could be needed if the
catheter did not repair the defect.

6

Introduction:

The heart birth defect is a problem in the
structure of the heart, exit since birth and is
considered the most common birth defects.
The severe defects is diagnosed during
pregnancy or after a short time of birth. But a
lot of heart birth defects are only diagnosed in
childhood stage or after and the treatment
could include: (medicines, surgical and medical
procedures).

Introduction:

The main function of heart is to pump blood to
lungs and the rest of the body parts.

Right Side
Right Atrium Left Atrium
Right Ventricle— — Left Ventricle

The heart consists of two sides (right and left) and
each side has two rooms: the small room is the
Atrium and the big one is the Ventricle and
separates them a barrier (interventricular septum).
Using two large veins, the blood flows from all
over the body to the right Atrium and then
pumped into the right Ventricle. The right
Ventricle pump the blood into the lungs and there
the blood gets filled with Oxygen, then the blood
goes from lungs to the left Atrium and then goes
to the left Ventricle which pump the blood back to
the rest of the body through the Aorta artery.

Types of Birth Defects:
Ahole in the heart.
Fistulas.
Narrowing in the heart valves.

Some children are born with holes in the
interventricular septum, so the blood gets mixed
in both heart sides through that hole. These holes
could be small, medium or big and the big ones
allows a larger blood leak which could lead to a
heart failure.

In fistulas, an abnormal blood flow happens
between the Aorta artery and the lung artery, and
this is a normal situation before birth and the
fistulas gets closed after birth but in some fetuses
the arterial canal remain open.

Also, the heart defects include the valves which
control the blood flow through heart and prevent
the venous reflux (a blood rebound).

Heart Valves may develop three main types of
problems:

Venous Reflux

When the blood wrongly flows backward through
valves, and this happens when valves can't close
properly.

Narrowing
It is when the valve does not open enough which
affect the blood flow through heart.

Non-Existent

Happens when the heart valve does not have a
foramen for the blood to flow through which
prevent blood from flowing through heart and
rest of the body.

IX

MAGDI YACOUB
HEART FOUNDATION
ASWAN HEART CENTRE

The Medical Educational Program

Congenital Heart Defects

This pamphlet will guide you
to a better understanding.