Smoking

One of the main reasons of heart diseases
besides lung cancers and strokes.

Lack of Exercises

Practicing exercises help losing weight and
that can lower the cholesterol and blood
pressure levels and strengthens you heart
muscle and reduces psychological distress.

Psychological Fatigue

You should control your psychological
distress and anxiety and plan to deal with
them properly.

6

IX

MAGDI YACOUB
HEART FOUNDATION
ASWAN HEART CENTRE

The Medical Educational Program

How to Prevent Heart Diseases

This pamphlet will guide you
toa better understanding.

Heart Diseases Protection:

The heart disease is the biggest reason for deaths
around the world. There are some habits you
should have to avoid the risk of heart diseases.

Heart is the most important muscle in the body as
it pumps the blood to the lungs and rest of the
body organs and because it is a living tissue it
requires blood and oxygen like the rest of the
body, so it pumps blood back to itself through
various blood vessels called coronary arteries.

The Narrowing of Coronary Arteries

Coronary arteries have a soft lining allows the
blood to flow softly and that is a natural artery.

The damage in the coronary arteries lining makes
it rough and the fat materials like cholesterol can
stick to this rough lining and gather around the
artery. Hence some masses build up on the arteries
internal walls and often causes a narrowing to the

arteries o eo @

The stroke leads to a comma or death

and signs for it are:

* Asudden numbness or pain in the face, arms, legs
and especially in only one of the two sides of the
body.

* Asudden confusion and difficulty in speaking or
understanding.

* Adifficulty in walking, dizziness or loss of balance.
* Asevere headache without an obvious reason.

* If you notice or have any of these symptoms, call
the ambulance immediately as each minute
counts.
Protection from Coronary Artery Diseases:

The main reasons that could lead to Atherosclerosis
are:

High cholesterol level

Healthy food: including a low amount of
cholesterol, unsaturated fats (white meat - fish -
vegetables -fruits)

Eat food full of fruits, vegetables, low-fat milks,
whole grains and fibers. Follow a moderate diet
of fats besides food full of potassium, calcium,
magnesium like fish, and use a little salt in it.

Learn how to relax as it is a good treatment for
stress, breathe slowly and deeply, listen to music,
enjoy enough sleep.

4

Angina, Heart attack and Stroke

The narrowing of arteries could decrease the blood
flow to heart and that may cause a pain or heaviness
in the chest or a difficulty in breathing and that is
called an Angina.

This pain can appear in the stomach area, middle of
the back, left arm or jaw.

When the narrowing happens, the blood flow could
be completely blocked and this state is called heart
attack.

During the heart attack, a part of the heart can be
affected as blood does not reach back to heart
adequately nor to the rest of the body. Heart attack
symptoms resembles the Angina ones.

Sometimes the blood clots as a result for the
artery narrowing and that clotting could move
and reach the brain and affect it which is called
a stroke.

3

Obesity

Losing weight should be slowly and gradually
because the fast weight loss is harmful.

Diabetes

You should check your blood sugar levels
regularly as the high blood sugar increases the
chance of heart and blood vessels diseases
injury.

High Blood Pressure
Control your blood pressure: reduce the amount of salt
in food because it makes the blood pressure high and
increases the narrowing of arteries.

5